The Joe Rogan experience.
Even though we just got through a horrible year,
that year exposed a lot of weird about our civilization. Yeah. It's it,
it exposed a lot of weird about a bunch of really freaked out people that
are just paranoid and,
and schizophrenic and how many people that are just fragile.
There's so many fragile people in our culture.
I was blown away by the politics of it. I'm a politician.
So this is what I analyze. And I was blown away that the,
the conversation about how to deal with the last year became, or,
or it, the division, the division fell upon partisan law,
right?
About whether to lock down or not to lockdown about whether people liked masks
or didn't like masks. And at first that seems really odd.
And so I spent a lot of time analyzing this cuz it shouldn't be that way. It,
it should, it should be mixed. You would,
you would think about just cuz what you're really talking about is somebody's
risk assessment and you know,
how they a perceive risk and how they want to deal with that and how they think
everybody else should deal with that. And um, it's strange.
I think there's a lot of factors involved. I,
I do think that there was some political opportunism.
I think that if Trump says something, people reactively say the opposite,
that's a problem. Right. And then that's definitely part of it. However, um,
after Trump lost the election, he, that, that didn't stop that,
that movement Toga, you know, for pro lockdown movement never stopped.
So it didn't, it was not clear to me then that, that was the only reason,
but it, but it.
Is see the problem is once people get committed to an ideology or committed to a
narrative yeah. Just because Trump lost and now Bidens in power,
it's not like everybody just abandons this narrative and,
and creates a new reality based on objective truth.
But they'll never even do a, do a,
an after action report on it to the point to where, to.
Where it's ridiculous. I thought you were showing us something.
<Laugh>. And, and so, so I, I put another, I put another,
a few factors in there. I, I think some of it is the fact that, uh,
Democrats tend to congregate in urban areas and it might be, you know,
the virus is more in your face, in an urban area than in a rural area.
That might be some explanation there for sure. Right. But,
but it really boils down to, and there's there's studies on this where our,
our brains light up differently, uh, when assessing risk.
Now it doesn't mean that the behavioral outcomes of these studies are,
are change. Basically they would,
they would take liberals and conservatives and they would give them a be what,
what bounce to a be game and see how they react now that now the actual
behavioral outcomes, what they choose wasn't didn't change all that much.
But when they're doing the MRI scans,
they see that their brains light up differently. So that's interesting.
So we clearly assess risk differently somehow. Uh, so I looked at data on,
uh, the kind of jobs that we choose and it turns out, and this is I,
if you would guess this,
that the vast majority of conservat or vast majority of dangerous jobs are,
are mostly populated by conservatives, lumbered, jacking, uh, hard labor,
uh, military law enforcement. So there's,
it's obvious that we're choosing to engage in risk differently just overall
in the aggregate.
And so I think that gets at why we think differently about this.
I think we're truly wired differently. And at, on top of that, the,
the natural disposition of a liberal to believe in some sort of collective
action,
whereas the natural disposition of a derivative is to believe that government
can only do so much right there, there's life out there.
And it's sometimes it's dangerous.
And it's up to you as an individual to generally assess that.
And that's also the most efficient way to do things in order to get the best
outcomes in the aggregate.
So these are two dispositions that are always present and,
and they manifest in policy outcomes all the time. And in this case,
it obvious how they manifested into the, into the way we dealt with coronavirus.
Um, and, and I think that kind of explains it cuz you know,
and think about this way too, when a,
when a more left leaning public health official talks about it,
they always give you the worst case scenario. Well,
it's possible that if you're 15, you could die. Well, yeah, it's possible.
But it's also far more unlikely than even if you got the flu, they don't,
they say they leave out that part. They leave out the context,
they leave out the probabilities.
This is why I've been so frustrated with our public health officials. Yeah.
Give us the whole truth. Right? Don't just give us the most dangerous truth.
Don't don't tell us the tail end of the probability, uh, scale, like that's,
that's not useful information to us. Very,
it's been very frustrating to watch how we've dealt with this over the last year
around the world. Not just in America, frankly,
we've had it better than a lot of countries. I, I.
Think people tend to try to find a group that they can attach
themselves to. And Chris rock has a great bit about this.
You know what you can find, uh, Maynard,
who is one of the matchmaker for the UFC posted this on his
Instagram, um, go to, uh, M you got it. Yeah.
Okay. So Maynard posted this from the great and powerful Chris rock.
And this is, we can watch this cuz it's on his Instagram.
And if Chris will holler at me, if it's it's an issue, but I love Chris.
And this is one of the, the best points. It might not be one of his best bits,
but it's one of his best points ever,
cuz he's so it's so accurate because he is talking about reality, man.
We all got a gang mentality.
Republicans are idiots and Democrats are idiots and conservatives
are idiots and liberals are idiots.
Anyone that makes up their mind before they hear the issue is a fool.
Okay.
Everybody now hold up. Everybody's so busy wanting to be down with a gang.
I'm a conservative, I'm liberal. I'm concerned. It's. Be a person.
Listen,
let it swirl around your head then form your opinion.
No normal decent person is one thing. Okay.
I got some I'm concerned about. I got some I'm liberal about crime.
I'm conservative prostitution. I'm liberal. <laugh>.
It goes on, but that's where the clip ends. But that's so accurate.
Is that what a lot of people are afraid of is being alone.
They're afraid of being attacked. And one of the things about today's culture,
particularly with, uh, social media is that it's an attack culture.
It's a bully culture.
And a lot of these people that are doing the attacking and the doing the
bullying, they've been bullied in the real world. So they want payback.
So they're trying to bully people online and that's what you see.
There's a lot of like low status males.
A lot of like really people who have never really overcome physical
adversity or they're not successful,
but they've found a way online to gather up a group of people that resonate
with some of their opinions and they can attack people and they do it all day
long. You.
Know, there's I find that to be the most <laugh>, it's fascinating. The,
the most probable it's somebody's, uh,
saying something extremely crude and awful to me online. It's it's probably a,
a younger man. It.
Doesn't necessarily,
sometimes it's older men who have failed their life and they've,
they've decided that this is their stand. This is their line,
the sand they're gonna draw.
Whether now they're gonna be anti-racist or they're gonna be, you know, uh,
anti homophobic or anti transphobic or whatever it is.
And they're gonna attack all these people. Yeah. Whether or, or anti, you know,
there's so many different ideological pathways that you could choose that you
could get a group of people that agree with you.
And then you fight against anyone that opposes these ideas and you do it in a
really aggressive and nasty way,
which is something that we should push back against period.
Like ideas should be something that you should be able to discuss
and, and debate and analyze. You should be able to sit down and go,
why do you believe in the simulation theory? You know? And,
and we shouldn't be like, well, you're a idiot, Joe Rogan. That's why you agree.
Yeah. It should be like, yeah, I'm a idiot. Yeah.
But that's not why I agree with this. That's not why I look at this.
I look at this cuz I'm curious. And I, I, I see all the various components,
you know, I think there's a lot of there's,
there's a lot of truth on both sides,
but the problem is when you ignore the truth on a side that doesn't fit with
your ideology, then you're not interested in truth.
You're interested in what Chris rock is talking about.
You're interested in supporting your gang.
So yeah. And that's your gang or team. I,
I always say that you're either wearing a blue Jersey or a red Jersey and then
you act accordingly and you repeat these sort of mantras that you think you're
supposed to repeat in order to, to gain favor within that group,
make them make sure they know you're part of the loyalists there.
If you don't say the things, then, then,
then that group gets distrustful of you. We,
but this is a problem we have on the right. Right.
So I think the left is power hungry. I think the right is paranoid.
And we tend to look for, for betrayers in our, in our midst, right?
We look for wait, who's paranoid.
Who's power hungry. Which.
One? The right, the right is more paranoid. Can you.
Switch it back and forth though? Left is paranoid sometimes too.
Look, look, everybody's on a spectrum. Right. So, so,
and I should say that in the beginning, right? I'm talking,
I'm analyzing in the aggregate, the coronavirus. Why, why,
why people fell on partisan lines on that? But it mean, look,
I recognize that not all liberals are risk averse to a dis extraordinary degree.
I read, recognize that we're all on a spectrum. Um, and from,
from the left to the right, but, but in the, in the aggregate,
this is sort of what we see. And then in politics, as you're talking about, we,
we put on these jerseys and so I'm just talking in generalities, right? Okay.
Of, of course the left can be ultra paranoid. Um, and of course the right and,
and it's extreme form can, can, can exhibit power, hungry tendencies, but it,
but it tends not to be. And if you,
and if we look at the policies actually being implemented,
that that tends not to be the case, but what I see on my side,
cause I'm always dealing with my side. We, we tend to be looking instead of,
instead of thinking how to persuade,
this is the problem I have and I'm trying to change the, that I have.
I mean that, I think we have, I,
we talk about fighting all the time and I say, look,
we have to define fighting as persuasion. Persuasion is,
is the name of the game in politics. Look, I can,
I can go charge a hill as a seal and that's fighting, right. I mean,
and it looks cool, but I'm gonna die. Okay.
What I really should do is communicate, uh, maneuver and, and kill the enemy.
That enemy, that way in politics, the, the fight must be persuasion. And it,
and too often, we, we get more concerned with, you know, saying the things,
saying the slogan, saying the things that make us feel good that make us that,
that, that,
that help us recognize one another as part of the same team wearing named
Jersey. And I think that's what he's getting at it. If somebody veers from that,
well, they're a trader, uh,
they're not one of you and then they're automatically wrong. And he, and,
and instead of saying, uh, I knew you were gonna say that, let me,
let me tell you why it's wrong. Let me explain it to you.
Let's have a debate about it.
We get really mad and we go online and we call names because we haven't actually
done in the background work to at least understand why we think what we think.
And when you understand why you think what you think,
that's how you can persuade people.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the J on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.